All right guys so we're going to deploy our site to a shared host with In Motion hosting which is a
service that I've used for a long time.
I'm actually going to create a new account.
They're not paying me a dime for this.
However I do have an affiliate link that I'll attach in a document to this lecture so if you are going
to buy a package I'd appreciate it if you could use that link.
All right.
So I'm actually going to go ahead and set up an account just out of pocket just to demonstrate this
to you.
So as you can see there's different types of hosting they offer many of them are the types we've talked
about.
Now they're shared hosting plans are going to be the business hosting.
You'll notice with different companies though they'll call it different things.
They also have WordPress hosting which is basically the business hosting or shared hosting.
But with Wordpress already pre configured WordPress is actually a content management system.
And it might be something worth looking into after this course.
They also a hosting dedicated servers reseller hosting.
We're going to go ahead and click on learn more for business hosting.
So as you can see if you choose any type of hosting that you're going to have additional packages with
different price points and these prices here are actually if you paid for two years in advance three
ninety nine you'll see one year for ninety nine.
This one is one year six ninety nine.
So very rarely if ever are you going to find a hosting company that allows you to actually pay three
dollars and ninety nine cents a month by month.
Usually you have to pay by year by two years sometimes they'll allow six months.
It really depends on the company.
But for now we're going to choose or I'm going to choose the cheapest version here for one year.
Now the difference between these you can see is the number of Web sites so you can have different amounts
of Web sites.
The disk space and bandwidth is unlimited on all of these but you have to be careful with shared hosting
even though it says Unlimited.
If you start to slow the server down you start to slow down resources.
They're either going to throttle you or they're going to ask you to bump up your package if you have
a Web site that has a ton of users or it's a really big or big application something like that then
you're going to want to use a VPN or dedicated server or something like that.
But like I said most small business Web sites these are absolutely fine.
I would probably say go with the middle tier but since I'm I'm just doing this for the course I'm going
to choose the cheapest one available which is going to be one year for four ninety nine per month which
should come to about 60 dollars a year
yes.
Now if you want an SSL certificate they do offer free SSL but you do have to have a dedicated IP for
that which is an additional four dollars a month which is 48 dollars.
So they're going to charge you an extra 48 dollars if you want a dedicated IP and an SSL I'm not going
to choose that but just know that you will need to if you want SSL.
And then here this is for just like a quick starter one page Web site for 100 bucks obviously we don't
want that.
And then if we want to install Wordpress or bold grid we could do that but we're not going to do that
either.
So let's click continue.
And now it's going to ask about a domain now within motion you can purchase a domain through them.
I think it's fourteen ninety nine per year or if you have your own you could choose this option here
enter your domain and then you would have to go wherever you registered that domain and just update
what's called name servers to point to you're in motion hosting account for just registering domains.
I actually suggest name cheap dot com.
I'll put an affiliate link for named cheap in the document as well but I'm just going to go ahead and
purchase a new domain here.
So I'm going to do edge ledger and I believe dot com is already taken but dot net is not.
So I'm going to just choose edge ledger dot net as my domain.
OK.
So as you can see it's available so I'm going to add it to my cart and then over here you can see my
total is eighty four eighty six that's for the entire year for the domain and for the hosting and let's
continue here.
I'm going to remove the domain privacy what that means is if someone tries to do a who is check on your
domain they won't be able to see your like the e-mail address you used and stuff like that but I don't
care about that.
So I'll delete that.
And then over here I am a returning customer but I want to create a whole new identity for this just
because this is only for the course.
So I'll go ahead and put an email address in here
and continue
and then it's probably going to take me to a page or I've to enter my credit card information and stuff
like that.
Yeah.
All my information.
So what I'm going to do is positive video I'm going to fill all this out and then I'll come back.
All right.
So I filled out all my information it gave me a summary up here so now I just need to click agree and
check out
OK.
So now it says welcome to IN MOTION hosting order details.
And down here it's gonna ask if we were creating a new Web site or transferring an existing web site.
So we're gonna go ahead and click creating a new Web site.
And they also ask if you want a one on one call from a new account specialist so someone that can actually
call you and help you out if you need help.
Which I think is really cool.
But obviously when we're gonna click.
No thanks.
And then here they have really good documentation and support for you know the control panel setting
up FCP accounts and stuff like that.
And you can get custom articles sent to you but I'm not going to check any of these so we'll just leave
them all blank.
Well I guess we have to check at least one.
So we'll do.
Let's do the getting started
OK.
So it's going to process that.
Now we should have an e-mail that has information on how to access our C panel our control panel and
stuff like that.
So I'm going to just pause the video and pull up that e-mail.
All right.
So this is the e-mail that you'll get.
Welcome to emotion hosting and it's going to say get started with your account management panel also
called.
So your e-mail your log in is going to be your e-mail address and then it says to get started set your
password here.
So we're gonna go ahead and click that.
We're gonna set a password.
So you actually need something different here.
All right.
So that might be too simple.
I'm gonna be cancelling this account anyways.
All right.
So this is your amp panel and this is this is basically in Motion's customer panel you can update your
contact information your credit card info if you have trouble you can send in a support ticket and then
down here you have your link to see panel which is basically your web hosting control panel and many
many different companies you see panel it's the most popular type of control panel for managed hosting.
You can also check your e-mail from here but you can also do that from C panel.
You can install software like WordPress stuff like that you can manage your SSL certificates.
So it's basically your.
Your client panel.
So let's go ahead and click on C. panel.
And that should open up and let's just close this up.
So this is your control panel for your basically your Web site your hosting account and you'll see there's
different sections preferences we have a lot of the stuff that we have in the HAMP panel like contact
information and to get back to amp you can click here or you can go click home.
There's also links up here to get to different sections but e-mail you have your e-mail accounts you
can set up your forwarders your email routing if spam filtering stuff like that domains if you wanted
to add another domain if you want to create redirects you can do that from here if you want to install
applications on your Web site like WordPress which is a blog slash CNS content management system you'll
sort of like shopping carts open cart press to shop these are open source shopping carts that you can
install and use on your Web site.
You have software so PDP packages stuff like that files FCP accounts we're going to get into that because
we need a way to actually upload our files to our site and databases if you get into application development.
You probably want to get into like my as well or Postgres.
These are relational databases and these are included as well metrics if you want to look at analytics
your Web site visitors and so on security you can block certain IP addresses you do you have Shell access
which means you can log in through the terminal into your account and do different things in advance
we have things like cron jobs but that's way beyond this course.
All right.
And on the right side I mean I have mine blurred out just because this is sensitive information but
it has all your stats and stuff like that the number of FCP accounts you use and email accounts and
so on.
So in the next video before we start to deploy our Web site I want to show you how to create email accounts
as well as FTE accounts.